I worked with two other high school students in a year-long class in which we managed our own project in which we programmed many iterations of neural networks, culminating in a neural network that could distinguish between pictures of airplanes and pictures of people with a high rate of success. We coded the first networks from scratch in Python to deepen our understanding of how a neural network actually works, without specialized neural network libraries. Then, we used Keras with a backend of Tensorflow to code subsequent networks.

Our inital tests are finalized with the perceptron, which is located in the Network from Scratch folder. Running the Perceptron.py file imports all of the sonar data, which is measurements of waves bounced off a rock and a metal rod, and tries to guess which object the measurements are from. This part of the project took over half of our classtime, and was mostly done by myself and NT2019.

The other folder contains our final leg of the project, which compares 10x10 grayscale images (resized with PhotoScape) and determines if they are a plane or a person. The training data is in the Faces and Planes folder, and the program which creates the model is Planes and People Network.py. From this, model.yaml and model.h5 are used by the file picturerunner.py to compare it to testing data--since we were using this as our demo, it requests the specific filename. You can check to see if you are a person or an airplane by adding your own 10x10 grayscale image and running picturerunner.py. This part of the project took the rest of the time and was mostly done by myself and Stroganogg.